Upload the blog for the final of SR2026 (#647)
srobo/website: _posts/2026-04-22-mai-win-sr2026.md

---
title: Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf win Student Robotics Competition 2026!
image: /images/content/blog/sr2026/sr2026-photo.png
image_alt: The competitors from the SR2026 competition, standing in and around our arena.
description: SR2026 came to an exciting conclusion with a victory for Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf
---

{% assign photo_full = "/images/content/blog/sr2026/sr2026-photo.png" | prepend: site.baseurl %}
{% include figure.html
           src="/images/content/blog/sr2026/sr2026-photo.png"
           url=photo_full
           caption="The teams from SR2026"
           alt="The competitors from the SR2026 competition, standing in and around our arena."
%}

> [Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf][MAI], a longstanding competitor of Student Robotics took first place, defeating [Hills Road Sixth Form College][HRS] along with returning competitors from [The Ladies College][TLC] and [King Edward VI Grammar School][KEG] in a nail biting grand final after two days of exciting competition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf][MAI], a longstanding competitor of Student Robotics, took first place, defeating [Hills Road Sixth Form College][HRS] along with returning competitors from [The Ladies College][TLC] and [King Edward VI Grammar School][KEG] in a nail-biting grand final after two days of exciting competition.
```

<iframe
  title="Video of the Final from SR2026"
  class="center video"
  src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/QtBBCHlCOtU?rel=0"
  width="560" height="315"
  frameborder="0"
></iframe>

## The game: The Neutral Zone

{% include figure.html
           class="right"
           src="/images/content/blog/sr2026/simulator-arena.png"
           caption="The 'Neutral Zone' arena"
           alt="The arena for The Neutral Zone from our simulator."
%}

> This year’s game, *The Neutral Zone*, had teams collecting lost samples of two types, acid and base, in order to save their research projects. The teams earned points for having only one kind of sample in their laboratory, since having one of each type would cancel each other out.

Reviewer: Question: is it worth having a brief introduction here referencing the "chemical spill" and context for the game?

Author: Changed in cf50c875bb708aaf073bc8978756be25b5095c52 :)

It now reads

```
This year’s game, *The Neutral Zone*, had teams collecting lost samples after a disastrous chemical spill threatened to disrupt vital research! 

There were two types of samples: acidoc and basic, and the teams earned points for having only one kind of sample in their laboratory, since having one of each type would cancel each other out.
```

> This year’s game, *The Neutral Zone*, had teams collecting lost samples of two types, acid and base, in order to save their research projects. The teams earned points for having only one kind of sample in their laboratory, and losing points if the other type found their way into their collected samples.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: The end sentence feels a little heavy
```suggestion
This year’s game, *The Neutral Zone*, had teams collecting lost samples of two types, acid and base, in order to save their research projects. The teams earned points for having only one kind of sample in their laboratory, since having one of each type would cancel each other out.
```

> The game was open to a huge range of strategies, from collecting only type of sample and quickly taking them back to their lab (or keeping them inside the robot), to more sneaky tactics involving stealing other teams' samples.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The game was open to a huge range of strategies, from collecting only one type of sample and quickly taking them back to their lab (or keeping them inside the robot), to more sneaky tactics involving stealing other teams' samples.
```

## Challenges

This year’s competition offered teams a set of Challenges to be completed throughout the competition year. These encouraged teams to start work on their robots early and covered movement, mechanics, sensing, stopping, transportation, vision, and using the simulator - core pillars to creating a successful robot. The Challenges could be approached in any order, and completing challenges before certain deadlines earned the teams bonus league points which could make all the difference come the competition.

## League Matches

> This year there were around 30 in person league matches on Saturday and Sunday, giving teams the chance to refine their strategies and perfect their implementation in software.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: The actual number is 45
```suggestion
This year there were over 40 in person league matches on Saturday and Sunday, giving teams the chance to refine their strategies and perfect their implementation in software.
```

## Knockouts

> As like last year the knockout stage was Double Elimination, meaning that teams needed to lose two matches to be knocked out of the competition. With each round, the competition grew fiercer, and the robots were pushed to their limits as they raced to collect their samples and secure their place in the finals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like last year, the knockout stage was Double Elimination, meaning that teams needed to lose two matches to be knocked out of the competition. With each round, the competition grew fiercer, and the robots were pushed to their limits as they raced to collect their samples and secure their place in the finals.
```

## The Final

> After the gruelling weekend of competition, the final four teams were dialled in with consistent but varied strategies, this was a meet between four veteran teams of Student Robotics, so the stage was set for an exciting final match!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the gruelling weekend, the final four teams were dialled in with consistent but varied strategies. This was a meet between four veteran teams of Student Robotics, so the stage was set for an exciting final match!
```

> The match started with all four robots moving out of their laboratories in quick succession, with Hills Road securing an early lead by collecting samples within their robot. This was quickly followed by King Edward VI Grammar School guarding a sample within their 'castle walls', and Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf reliably securing theirs. Travis from The Ladies College, confidently moved out and displayed their tactic of storing a sample inside of their robot, using it as a "perch" for collecting others.

Reviewer: Nitpick: should this be "Hills Road Sixth Form College"? How important is it for the schools' names to be written out in full each time?

Author: Agreed, changed in cf50c875bb708aaf073bc8978756be25b5095c52 :)

> The match started with all four robots moving out of their laboratories in quick succession, with Hills Road securing an early lead by collecting samples within their robot. This was quickly followed by King Edward VI Grammar School guarding a sample within their 'castle walls', and Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf reliably securing theirs. Travis from The Ladies College, confidently moved out and displayed their tactic of storing a sample inside of their robot, using it as a "perch" for collecting others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The match started with all four robots moving out of their laboratories in quick succession, with Hills Road securing an early lead by collecting samples within their robot. This was quickly followed by King Edward VI Grammar School guarding a sample within their 'castle walls', and Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf reliably securing theirs. Travis from The Ladies College confidently moved out and displayed their tactic of storing a sample inside of their robot, using it as a "perch" for collecting others.
```

> As the match progressed, HRS managed to secure the first major sample collection, taking three back to their lab. MAI proceeded to collect samples from the raised area of the arena, showcasing their dual strategy approach which ultimately proved vital. Meanwhile, the robot from KEG remained in their lab, guarding their well earned sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the match progressed, HRS managed to secure the first major sample collection, taking three back to their lab. MAI proceeded to collect samples from the raised area of the arena, showcasing their dual strategy approach which ultimately proved vital. Meanwhile, the robot from KEG remained in their lab, guarding their well-earned sample.
```

> As the match progressed, HRS managed to secure the first major sample collection, taking three back to their lab. MAI proceeded to collect samples from the raised area of the arena, showcasing their dual strategy approach which ultimately proved vital. Meanwhile, the robot from KEG remained in their lab, guarding their well earned sample.

Reviewer 2: Issue: This is the first time the TLAs are used. It's probably better to mention the TLAs in the first paragraph (in brackets) so they can be reused.

Author: Agreed, changed in 47829c7501a42794f9e24b85bcfbb9e338496a3a :)

> After the timer reached zero, Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf secured a decisive victory using their reliable mechanism.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the timer reached zero, Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf secured a decisive victory using their simple yet reliable mechanism.
```

## Results

For the first time, a prize was added for 4th place to recognise the achievement of those teams who reach the Grand Final of Student Robotics.

> - _Winner_: MAI — [Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf][MAI]

Reviewer: Question: would "1st place" make more sense here, following the format for the other winners?

Author: Agreed, changed in cf50c875bb708aaf073bc8978756be25b5095c52 :)

> For the first time, a prize was added for 4th place to recognise the achievement of those teams who reach the Grand Final of Student Robotics, and the winner of the Rookie award received a trophy.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: Since we don't mention whether the prize is edible or otherwise, let's just flag the addition of 4th place.
```suggestion
For the first time, a prize was added for 4th place to recognise the achievement of those teams who reach the Grand Final of Student Robotics.
```

- _2nd place_: HRS — [Hills Road Sixth Form College][HRS]
- _3rd place_: TLC — [The Ladies College][TLC]
- _4th place_: KEG — [King Edward VI Grammar School][KEG]
- _Excellence in Engineering_: SWL — [Space Studio West London][SWL] (award sponsored by ITDev)
- _Rookie Award_: TMD — [Tormead School][TMD]
- _Robot and Team Image_: KEG — [King Edward VI Grammar School][KWG]
- _Online Presence_: WGS — [Wisbech Grammar School][WGS]

> The Excellence in Engineering Award is given to the team that displays the most extraordinary ingenuity in the design of their robot. As engineers, we appreciate elegance, simplicity, and robust engineering. Whilst the Judges were impressed by the 3D printed design of The Tiffin School’s robot, and simple, and reliable design of Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf, This year the Excellence in Engineering award was given to one of our rookies, Space Studio West London. Their robot sported precise movement through the use of an odometer, and omni-wheels that allowed them to glide effortlessly around our arena and collect samples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Excellence in Engineering Award is given to the team that displays the most extraordinary ingenuity in the design of their robot. As engineers, we appreciate elegance, simplicity, and robust engineering. Whilst the Judges were impressed by the 3D-printed design of The Tiffin School’s robot, and the simple, and reliable design of the Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf robot, This year the Excellence in Engineering award was given to one of our rookies, Space Studio West London. Their robot sported precise movement through the use of an odometer, and omni-wheels that allowed them to glide effortlessly around our arena and collect samples.
```

Author: Changed in79c25bdf793de4d419e9781feab7b791028badc6 :)

> The Excellence in Engineering Award is given to the team that displays the most extraordinary ingenuity in the design of their robot. As engineers, we appreciate elegance, simplicity, and robust engineering. Whilst the Judges were impressed by the 3D printed design of The Tiffin School’s robot, and simple, and reliable design of Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf, This year the Excellence in Engineering award was given to one of our rookies, Space Studio West London. Their robot sported precise movement through the use of an odometer, and omni-wheels that allowed them to glide effortlessly around our arena and collect samples.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Excellence in Engineering Award is given to the team that displays the most extraordinary ingenuity in the design of their robot. As engineers, we appreciate elegance, simplicity, and robust engineering. The Judges were impressed by the 3D printed design of The Tiffin School’s robot, and simple yet and reliable design of Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf. However, this year the Excellence in Engineering award was given to one of our rookies: Space Studio West London. Their robot sported precise movement through the use of an odometer, and omni-wheels that allowed them to glide effortlessly and accurately around our arena to collect samples.
```

Author: Addressed in 47829c7501a42794f9e24b85bcfbb9e338496a3a :)

> We’re always delighted to welcome new teams to Student Robotics and understand how big a challenge it can be without prior experience. To recognise this additional challenge, we award the Rookie Award to the highest placed newcomer in the league, celebrating their incredible achievement, this year’s recipient was the Tormead School.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We’re always delighted to welcome new teams to Student Robotics and understand how big a challenge it can be without prior experience. To recognise this additional challenge, we award the Rookie Award to the highest-placed newcomer in the league, celebrating their incredible achievement, this year’s recipient was the Tormead School.
```

> The receipt of this year's Rookie award was slightly unusual, in that it was accepted by only one member of their team, - as the rest were unable to attend the competition due to scheduling constraints - a dedicated Year 8 student who was heavily involved in the programming of the robot. We're so glad this young person had such a unique experience and wish her and the rest of the team the best in all of their engineering pursuits.

Reviewer 2: Nit: This tweaks the wording slightly to be closer to what we said in the prize giving
```suggestion
The receipt of this year's Rookie award was slightly unusual, in that it was accepted by only one member of their team, as the rest were unable to attend the competition. Instead, a dedicated Year 8 student who was shadowing the team was determined to represent their school.
```

Author: > who was shadowing the team

This sort of understates what the school said she did? Didn't they say she was involved in the programming?

"She understands the code and was involved in the development of the software."

Reviewer 2: Hmm, good point. How about:

```suggestion
The receipt of this year's Rookie award was slightly unusual, in that it was accepted by only one member of their team, as the rest were unable to attend the competition. Instead, a dedicated Year 8 student who was involved in the programming of the robot was determined to represent their school.
```

{% assign team_keg_full = "/images/content/blog/sr2026/team-keg.png" | prepend: site.baseurl %}
{% include figure.html
           class="right"
           src="/images/content/blog/sr2026/team-keg.thumbnail.png"
           url=team_keg_full
           caption="King Edward VI Grammar School with their medieval themed robot."
           alt="King Edward VI Grammar School with their themed robot and their team in medieval costumes."
%}

> We award the Robot and Team Image Award to the team that presents themselves in the most outstanding way. As usual our teams rose to the challenge and we saw some fantastic themes! We loved The College of Richard Collyer’s astroturf garden theme, which involved their robot taking the form of a beautifully curated garden (complete with snakes!), however the award for Robot and Team Image went to King Edward VI Grammar School for their medieval robot theme, and corresponding team outfits which included a King, Jester, and even a dragon!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We award the Robot and Team Image Award to the team that present themselves in the most outstanding way. As usual, our teams rose to the challenge and we saw some fantastic themes! We loved The College of Richard Collyer’s astroturf garden theme, which involved their robot taking the form of a beautifully-curated garden, complete with guardian snakes! However, the award for Robot and Team Image went to King Edward VI Grammar School for their medieval robot theme, and corresponding team outfits which included a King, Jester, and even a dragon!
```

Through social media, teams can share the problems they’re facing as well as their designs and successes. A few teams stood out to us this year with their regular uploads, such as The College of Richard Collyer, King Edward VI Grammar School, Peter Symonds College, Tiffin School, and Headington Rye School, but the winner of the Online Presence Award was Wisbech Grammar School for consistent and high quality posts throughout the year.

Check out the [rulebook][rules] for all the details on the awards we give.

## Media

> If you would like to watch the competition back, the event was livestreams are available on our [YouTube Channel][sr-youtube]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to watch the competition back, the event livestreams are available on our [YouTube Channel][sr-youtube]:
```

- Saturday, Day 1: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aLDyjLLuZgU>
- Sunday, Day 2: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oXoNyv2Ck7g>

The playlists for the soundtrack to the competition are also available:

- [Epic Playlist](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/4wBih3S3fb47yCcG9gMSbk)
- [_Chill_ Playlist](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/0d8B7ynxuFNWDrN90w9fbP)

Photos of the event have been added to our [Google Photos Album](https://photos.app.goo.gl/TqStCCh5KQHZ164r7).

## Thank You

This year’s competition would not have been possible without all of our amazing sponsors. Their generous support allows us to make Student Robotics free to enter and help us continue in our mission to bring the excitement of engineering and the challenge of coding to young people through robotics.

### Our SR2026 Sponsors

> - [The University of Southampton Engineering and Computer Science](https://ecs.soton.ac.uk/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [The University of Southampton School of Engineering and Computer Science](https://ecs.soton.ac.uk/)
```

- [ITDev](https://www.itdev.co.uk/)
- [Mythic Beasts](https://www.mythic-beasts.com/)
- [Hexibox](https://hexibox-events.co.uk/)

We're always looking to partner with more organisations. If you'd like to work with us, see our [sponsor page][sponsor].

### Our Volunteers

> We’d also like to thank our volunteers, who make Student Robotics happen every year! Some have helped at the competition itself, while others have been in teams working throughout the year to organise the event. Our Competition Team designs, organises, and delivers Tech Days and the Competition weekend. Our Kit Team designs and supports the software and hardware our competitors use; the Infrastructure Team ensures that our website stays up and our internal teams can work collaboratively; the Fundraising Team ensures that we have the resources needed to run our events; and the Marketing Team makes sure our efforts are seen and heard by all. A huge thank you to everyone who contributed to the success of this year’s competition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We’d also like to thank our volunteers, who make Student Robotics happen every year! Some have helped at the competition itself, while others have been in teams working throughout the year to organise the event. Numerous volunteers were involved with making the event what it was. From organising logistics and supporting the Kit, to fundraising and marketing - it takes a lot to make Student Robotics. A huge thank you to everyone who contributed to the success of this year’s competition.
```

- _Rookie Award_: TMD — [Tormead School][TMD]
- _Robot and Team Image_: KEG — [King Edward VI Grammar School][KWG]
- _Online Presence_: WGS — [Wisbech Grammar School][WGS]

The Excellence in Engineering Award is given to the team that displays the most extraordinary ingenuity in the design of their robot. As engineers, we appreciate elegance, simplicity, and robust engineering. The Judges were impressed by the 3D printed design of The Tiffin School’s robot, and the simple yet reliable design of the Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf robot. However, this year the Excellence in Engineering award was given to one of our rookies: Space Studio West London. Their robot sported precise movement through the use of an odometer, and omni-wheels that allowed them to glide effortlessly and accurately around our arena to collect samples.

We’re always delighted to welcome new teams to Student Robotics and understand how big a challenge it can be without prior experience. To recognise this additional challenge, we award the Rookie Award to the highest-placed newcomer in the league, celebrating their incredible achievement, this year’s recipient was the Tormead School.

> The receipt of this year's Rookie award was slightly unusual, in that it was accepted by only one member of their team, as the rest were unable to attend the competition. Instead, a dedicated Year 8 student who was involved in the programming of the robot was determined to represent their school.

Reviewer 2: Nit: Let's merge these paragraphs

```suggestion
We’re always delighted to welcome new teams to Student Robotics and understand how big a challenge it can be without prior experience. To recognise this additional challenge, we award the Rookie Award to the highest-placed newcomer in the league, celebrating their incredible achievement, this year’s recipient was the Tormead School. The receipt of this year's Rookie award was slightly unusual, in that it was accepted by only one member of their team, as the rest were unable to attend the competition. Instead, a dedicated Year 8 student who was involved in the programming of the robot was determined to represent their school.
```
